He has brought it to show IP IPTV six runt.
We haven't learnt about any Roth's.
We only have a No.
0 rout in the routing table.
So let's configure the running named first configure the loot back IP vs 6
address 2001 face to colon on column 1 slash 64 interface gigabit 0 0 IP vs 6 2001 column 1 colon colon
to slash 64 no shut the interface gigabit 0 1
and the site will be 2001.
Colon 2 colon colon 1 and I'll no shut that interface show I vs 6 ranked some rorts have been added
to the writing table of this rota we can see a local interface rout of 2001 colon 1 colon colon to slash
128.
So that's the IP address configured on gigabit 00 we can see some directly connected networks such as
2001 colon to Colon colon 64.
That's this network but we don't have any 0 SPF rates in the routing table.
So show IP vs 6 right 0 SPF shows no 0 SPF rights in the writing table of router 2 so first thing I
Peavey 6 unit cost writing has to be enabled.
Now as soon as I've done that on this router show run pipe include IP vs 6 notice that that command
has enabled IP vs 6 self which is Cisco express forwarding allowing quicker switching of traffic from
one interface to another.
Let's contrast that with Rider 3 which has no configuration on it
so show run pipe include my Peavey 6 this Rada has the command no IP vs success.
But if we enable IP vs 6 unit cost routing on the router and then do a show run pipe include IP v 6
again.
Notice IP vs success has been enabled by default on this router that may be different to other riders
and switches that you use in the real world.
So just check on your devices.
You want to use safe or Cisco express forwarding for quicker throughput of traffic.
So on this rather IP vs 6 Radha 0 SPF 1 rather OSP for 1 Rada I.D. here will be configured as 2 2 2
2 and then we will go on to our gigabit 00 interface and enable 0 SPF on that interface in Area 1 and
we'll also do something on the loop back.
So the loop back will also belong to Area 1.
Notice please that a neighbor relationship has been established with this neighbor on gigabit 00.
So rather 2 has formed a neighbor relationship with Rod one and a rod or one we can see something similar.
It's formed a neighbor relationship with Rod a 2 so in order to show IP vs 6 protocols Oh SPF has been
enabled on this rather with process I.D. one Rada I.D. 2 2 2 2.
These interfaces have been put into SPF.
I forgot to put gigabit 0 1 into 0 SPF so let's do that here so show IP protocols again.
Loop back to 0 gigabit 0 0 and 0 1 have been added 2 0 SPF we have one normal area which is Area 1 Rata
I.D. this once again show IP vs 6 0 SPF and neighbor we have a neighbor relationship with this Rada
the neighbor relationship is full the neighboring router is a designated Rada on this side show IP the
6 0 SPF neighbor it has a neighbor relationship with to 2 which has a backup designated rather local
interfaces gigabit 0 0 on both sides show IP vs 6 route notice we see an 0 SPF right in the running
table so we could do it this way show IP vs 6 wrapped 0 SPF 2 only see 0 SPF rates and that draw is
showing in the routing table so we could not type ping and specify protocols such as IP vs 6 and ping
2001 colon face colon 1 colon colon 1 or we can just remove IP vs 6 and specify the address the rod
is intelligent enough to know that this is an IP vs 6 IP address so we don't have to specify IP vs 6
once again that crowd has been learnt through 0 SPF but notice it's via this address it's not using
this IP address as the next top the next top is a linked local address which is the address on router
ones gigabit 00 interface so this link local address is seen as the next hop from Robert to his point
of view the ISP if neighbor relationship is not established using IP vs 6 global unicorns addresses
they are established using link local addresses show IP vs 6 0 SPF database
we now have two riders in the 0 SPF database but rather one is the designated rata on the segment so
we now have IP connectivity between these two routers they can ping each others loop back and I made
a mistake earlier show IP vs 6 0 SPF protocol notice this interface was added to Area 1 instead of area
0 but 0 SPF still functions 0 SPF does not require area 0 if you only have a single area and that's
true for SPF version 3 and 0 SPF version 2 so this command on gigabit 0 1 needs to be changed
so let's remove that and put that interface
into area 0 so now show IP protocol 0 SPF is enabled on the Rada but notice we have areas 0 as well
as area 1 so they are two normal areas configured one interfaces in area 0 2 interfaces are an area
1 So now let's can figure out a 3 and router 4 and get full connectivity between these routers.